Sample commands and practising exercises for the upcoming exam

To create a directory use mkdir command:  mkdir directory_name
To delete a directory use rmdir command: rmdir directory_name
To change directory from one location to another use cd command: cd directory_name with path location
To show the list of directories and files in a current directory use ls command: ls 
To copy contents of one file to another, use the cp command: cp test.txt copytest.txt
To move/cut files from one location to another use rm command: rm your file_name destination path location
For creating an empty file, use the touch command:  touch file1 file2 file3, which creates three files in your current directory.    
To display the contents of the file, use the cat (short for concatenation) command:  cat test.txt
A file can be renamed by moving it. The same can be achieved by using the mv command: mv test3.txt newtest3.txt
grep: The grep command is used to search text. It searches the given file for lines containing a match to the given strings or words. It is one of the most useful commands on Linux and Unix-like system. Let us see how to use grep on a Linux or Unix like system.

The syntax is as follows: (see, page-853 from text book)


grep [options] pattern [file-list]

head: Displays the beginning of a file.

The syntax is as follows: (see, page-861 from text book)

head [options] [file-list]

join: Joins lines from two files based on a common field

The syntax is as follows: (see, page-863 from text book)
                          join [options] file1 file2
sort: Sorts and/or merges files

The syntax is as follows: (see, page-969 from text book)


                         sort [options] [file-list]
tail: Displays the last part (tail) of a file

The syntax is as follows: (see, page-992 from text book)

           tail [options] [file-list]
uniq: Displays unique lines from a file

The syntax is as follows: (see, page-1023 from text book)

uniq [options] [input-file] [output-file]

diff: The diff (difference) utility compares two files and displays a list of the differences between them.

The syntax is as follows: (see, page-795 from text book)

file: file command is used to determine the type of a file. .file type may be of human-readable(e.g. ‘ASCII text’) or MIME type(e.g. ‘text/plain; charset=us-ascii’)

The syntax is as follows: (see, page-820 from text book)


Practice exercises (important, sheel scripting)
Suppose you are in Document directory. So Open Last Edited File in that directory. 
Print all the system information in the following order: Kernel name, network node hostname, kernel release date, kernel version, machine hardware name, hardware platform, operating system.
Display content in reverse order of a file. 
Display the current date in the form of dd/mm/yy.
How do your display both date and time in the format of dd-mm-yy/hh.mm.ss?
 Copy a file from Desktop to a directory under Documents directory. 
Make a directory in Pictures with the name My Photos.
Searche through the memo file for lines that contain the string credit and displays the single line that meets this criterion. 
Let us assume there are two files file1.txt and file2.txt and we want to combine the contents of these two files.  Furthermore, create a new file with the joined contents.
Removes all the duplicate lines in a text file.
Let's say you have a file, data.txt, which contains the following ASCII text:
apples
oranges
pears
kiwis
bananas
Sort the contents in the file in reverse alphabetic order (descending order).
Find the string “the” containing in a text file name “myfile.txt”.
Order Files Based on Last Modified Time (In Reverse Order).
Recursively remove all files and directories under the example directory.
Display the file contents with the line number to each line of the output.
Create a directory called temp under your home directory.
View all the network interfaces along with status.



